As we are preparing for the beginning of the Robot season in January I suggest we work on putting together a 
BalanceBot and continue to pick up the technology and skills we need to develop a walking robot and meet your
long-term goals.

For the BalanceBot have the following components to be merged together into one system:

1) CPU:

Raspberry Pi, Model B+, V1, https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/model-b-plus/
 - The Pi has 
 - The GPIO header has 40 pins, the first 26 pins the same as the Model A and B.
 - 4 USB 2.0 ports
 - Micro SD. 

Alternatively, we could use one of the Arduinos.  That would make it a little bit difficult to work directly
with video inputs, but there is no reason we couldn't put a second processor on board.

Or, we could hook up a RoboRIO or a MyRIO for the application.  We would have to look at the 
total power requirement, as those are much higher power users than the Pi or the Arduino.

2) POWER:

I have a Grove I2C Motor Controller.  The biggest disadvantage of the controller is that it can only 
handle 2 amps per channel.  The Pololu motors sink about 5 amps of current at 12 volts, so this 
could be a problem.

As an alternative, the Pololu Dual VNH3SP30 Motor Driver Carrier MD03A, which sells for $49.94, provides up to
amps of continuous power and up to 24 volts.  Since the motors are rated at 12 volts and 5 amps, this device
would be the best, and least expensive.

It is also possible to build a power unit ourselves.  There are several tutorials on the web for such devices.
The actual cost for the parts is probably around $40 for a suitably sized controller.


3) The IMU:

BNO055 Absolute Orientation IMU, with 9 degrees of freedom.

Alternatively, we could build this using an Arduino.  I have a tilt unit for the Arduino in 6 degrees of
freedom. We probably really only need tilt and yaw. 

4) Pololu 37d gearmotors.  They run at 350 RPM and draw a continuous 5 amps of power at 12 volts during max drain.

The connector for the motors provides path for power from the controller and returns encoder signals.
 - Color   Function
 - Red     motor power (connects to one motor terminal)
 - Black   motor power (connects to the other motor terminal)
 - Green   encoder GND
 - Blue    encoder Vcc (3.5 – 20 V)
 - Yellow  encoder A output
 - White   encoder B output

5) VIDEO:

We can work on that later, but the Pi and the RoboRIO or MyRIO can both handle USB input.

6) CONTROL:

This is a bit down the road, but we ultimately want something like the guy in the virtual reality headset and body movement sensors.
